---
toc: True
comments: True
layout: post
title: Passion Project Ideation
description: 
courses: {'compsci': {'week': 4}}
type: hacks
---

## ScholarSearch: The Idea

This would be a platform in which users could sign in and search for colleges across the world. They would have the ability to rank schools they like and sort them into reach, target, and safety sections according to the data we have linked about the school.

## Purpose + Value

ScholarSearch aims to make the college application process a little easier by helping students formulate their college list in a fun and easy manner. 

## Login Page

In order to enter our site, you'll need to create an account with a username and password. This will allow you to store data in your account and save the lists that you create. This page will be the first thing you see before you can get into the site.

## Ranking System

In order to help students sort the colleges into their three lists, our database will record how many students choose certain schools as their reaches, targets, or safties. So if a student sees a school has been chosen 24 times as a safety, they might be able to get a better idea of how they too should sort that school.

## Backend/Database

Our backend and database would record:

1. API: the user-login data
2. the different colleges students can choose from and information about them
3. how many times a school has been sorted into a specific category m 

## Frontend Design 

We'd have one tab to pick colleges, one place to view their list, and another place to change user information (like a profile page).

We're also thinking about using more pastel or light-toned colors linked with reducing anxiety, as college applications can be a very stressful process. Making our site more aesthetic would also increase the amount of people who want to use it.

## Extra

We can have a page on the front when you log in that has the most popular colleges listed, based off of what our users have favorited. 